# Goal-Based Story Generator

## Creating Stories
Sample output can be seen in output.txt which also includes the values
in constants.json I modified which updated how rules executed.

Node.js is required for the project.
Navigate to the project directory and run:

	npm install

To run the story generator, run:

	node sketch.js
	

## About the Project
I created this story generator for a senior project course at Kansas State University. This was a project I've wanted to try for a few years and I was happy for an opportunity to spend a semester trying to create one. A PDF of my presentation slides can be found in the folder 'project-presentation'.

I performed general research about story generators for this project, but the research papers that made me decide on creating a goal-based generator are listed below. Dwarf Fortress was my original inspiration for this project and I saw that story generators like Universe and Tale-spin would allow me to reach the complexity and level of control I wanted to
achieve in this project. The current project in no way compares to the legends generated by Dwarf Fortress, but I am happy with the progress I made in a semester. I'll continue working on the project when I'm able.

The goal is to eventually use this generator in the project [Labyrinthine Flight](https://github.com/jwhi/LabyrinthineFlight), a rogue-like I'm developing. The classes and stories will be created from a user's character creation choices and the story will explain how the character ended up in the dungeon.

## Research
- B. Kybartas, R. Bidarra, "A Survey on Story Generation Techniques for Authoring Computational Narratives" (2016)

- M. Lebowitz, "Story Telling as Planning and Learning" (1985)

- J. Meehan, “Tale-Spin, An Interactive Program that Writes Stories” (1977)

- R. Pérez y Pérez, M. Sharples, "Three computer-based models of storytelling: BRUTUS, MINSTREL and MEXICA" (2004)